Welcome back.
Let's quickly talk about pointers, something that you'll hear a lot in computer science topics.
A pointer is simply this.
It's a reference to another place in memory or another object or another node.
And in JavaScript, we can demonstrate it with something like this.
If I have an object, let's call it object one.
That is a simple object that has a as true.
And I'm going to comment this out.
And now we do something like cost object two equals object one.
We've just created a pointer, a reference to an object, and that is what a pointer is.
It's simply a reference.
Here, I'm not copying the object.
I'm not saying object one equals a equals true, and also creating another location in memory that says
A equals true in memory.
When we look at our RAM, there's only one entry.
A equals to true.
And both object one and object two point to the same location in memory.
To show you that is the case.
Let's just console.log.
Object one.
And then console.log.
Object to.
And just so we're clear on this, I'm going to say one here and this is going to be two, so that if
I run this, I have both a equals to true.
But if I change object.
A So accessing property a in object one.
And I say that is going to equal booyah and I run this.
Look at that.
Both object one and object two changed because I've created a pointer here saying Object two is going
to reference object one like so.
And they both point to the same location in memory.
And that's what a pointer is.
It's simply saying, hey, this is where it is in memory.
And when we look at our link list example.
When we remove.
Let's say a node at index of two and I hit go.
One, two.
We remove that and that just disappears from memory.
How does that work?
Well, if we go back to our example.
I can just delete object.
One.
And I'm going to change these into let because we are going to change the values here.
Five.
Click Run.
I get reference here.
Object one is not defined at line 14.
That's right over here.
So let's just comment this out because object one doesn't exist anymore.
If I click Run.
I still have object to as booyah.
Even though we deleted object one.
Hmm.
What's happening here?
Well, the way it works in most programming languages is that.
Our computers are going to delete the memory that is unused and because it sees that object to is still
referencing this location in memory, this value in memory, it's not going to delete it.
Because there's still a pointer to this location in memory and this is how things get deleted in languages
like JavaScript.
This is what you might call garbage collection.
Where as soon as we say.
Object to dot or object two equals hello now and I click run.
Now object to which referenced the memory space that had a equals to true is now just simply a string.
So because JavaScript is garbage collected, that is memory is managed automatically.
This gets automatically garbage collected and deleted because nothing is pointing to it.
However, there's low level languages where you have to manage your own memory and you have to manually
delete this on referenced item in memory.
And this can cause a lot of possible issues where you leave a memory that's not being used in memory,
which is a valuable resource.
But then there's also benefits with non garbage collected languages where you get to manage your own
memory so you can make things really, really fast and efficient.
All right.
I think that's enough for pointers.
A pointer is simply a reference to something else in memory.
And we're going to use this knowledge in our next video to create our very first link list data structure.
I'll see you in the next one.